2 perfect days in Philly
Beyond the cheesesteaks and the colonial history. 
For a weekend getaway, it’s hard to beat Philadelphia. This extremely walkable city is a magnet for arts lovers, whether they want to see masterpieces from hundreds of years ago or works by today's hip young artists. The many history museums have kept up with the times, offering interactive exhibits that bring the past to life. And these days it is a dining destination in its own right where the ever-present cheesesteaks and hoagies have given way to award-winning restaurants that people travel across the country to visit. 
To see everything in just two days is a challenge, but the itinerary below covers just about everything in and around City Center. Use it as a starting point to plan your own trip. We've listened to our Tripadvisor readers and included many of their favorites on this tour of the City of Brotherly Love.
Save all the things you love
Tap the heart on any place mentioned below to save all your travel ideas in one place and build a custom itinerary. Learn more.
DAY ONE
MORNING: Start the day with the Founding Fathers
A word of advice when visiting Philadelphia's historical sites: Don't try to do it all. There are more than five dozen National Historic Landmarks within its borders. You couldn't visit all of them if you tried. Most locals have only seen a fraction of them. Decide what you're most interested in learning about and create your own customized itinerary, using ours as a starting point. 
That said, it's a good idea to begin the day at Independence Hall. First of all, it's centrally located, with more than a dozen other equally historic locations within a couple of blocks. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were both debated and adopted in this rather modest Georgian-style building. Reserve your timed tickets well in advance, as same-day tickets can be hard to come by. It's well worth the $1 fee for booking online. 
Next door is Congress Hall, where legislators met before the government packed up and moved to Washington D.C.. The free ranger-led tours depart every 20 minutes and include hilarious anecdotes, such as the time newly sworn in President John Adams had to politely ask George Washington to leave the building so that he could start on his own presidential duties. Across the street is the Liberty Bell, an Instagram-worthy spot with Independence Hall in the background. That building’s bell tower is where the bell was hung in 1776, when legend says it rang to proclaim a new nation. It more likely was rung on July 8, when the Declaration of Independence was read for the first time.
At the other end of the park is the massive National Constitution Center. The exhibit on how the Constitution was written is fascinating, but the best reason to visit just might be the sweeping views of Independence Hall.
AFTERNOON: Sample Philly's finest cheesesteaks
Also facing Independence National Historical Park is the Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History, filling four floors with exhibits that touch on what life was like for Jews in Colonial America. It's a short stroll from two other historic sites that focus on religious life in the early years of the country, the Arch Street Meeting House, a Quaker house of worship built in 1804, and the even older Christ Church, constructed in 1744 and attended by George Washington and Benjamin Franklin.
At some point you're going to want to stop for lunch, and with a little luck you'll be in front of Sonny's Famous Steaks. The name refers to cheesesteaks, the sandwiches that are almost synonymous with Philly. Topped with your choice of cheese— provolone, bleu, American, or Cheez Whiz — Sonny’s are the best of the best, according to Tripadvisor readers. One said that for the city's finest cheesesteaks, "it's always Sonny's in Philadelphia." 
A good way to wrap up a day of sightseeing is a visit to the Museum of the American Revolution, which Tripadvisor readers describe as a “small museum with a huge impact.” It does an incredible job of relating the events leading up to the country’s independence, using interactive exhibits, video presentations, and even some actors dressed as George Washington and other historical figures. 
EVENING: Stroll through two of the city’s prettiest parks 
Not far from Independence Hall, Talula's Garden sits across from the historic Washington Square. Their focus is on locally-sourced ingredients, so almost everything in the dishes like duck cassoulet or salmon rillettes comes from somewhere in the region. The organic wines seem to pair well with everything. Top off the evening with a stroll along the walkways of Independence National Historical Park. 
INDEPENDENCE HALL AREA TOUR OPTIONS 
A little bit like speed dating, the Philadelphia Old City Historic Walking Tour takes you past more than 15 of the city's best-known landmarks in just 90 minutes. You won't form any lasting relationships, but you'll figure out which ones you want to get to know better. Alexander Hamilton is among the apparitions that will send a chill up and down your spine on a tour with Philly Ghosts. This Founding Father reportedly haunted the First National Bank, which he helped to found, after leaving behind massive debts when he died in a duel.Three blocks from the Liberty Bell, Tiffany's Bakery serves up steamed donuts — you read that correctly — that will make you swoon. The Underground Donut Tour takes you here and to several other spots that aim to make this pastry a Philly staple.
Travelers say: "[Independence Hall is] a must do for Philadelphia. While there are limited things to see inside, the staff do a great job of bringing things to life. Simply standing in the place where so much history occurred was worth the trip." —@travbud1
Worthy detours along the way
The African American Museum in Philadelphia125History Museums2024Benjamin Franklin Museum638Speciality Museums2024Elfreth's Alley1,201Historic Sites, History Museums2024United States Mint1,166Government BuildingsChrist Church Burial Ground250CemeteriesOld City Hall102Government Buildings, Historic SitesFirst Bank of the United States32Architectural Buildings, Historic SitesWashington Square225Historic Sites, Parks
DAY TWO
MORNING: Grab breakfast on the go
Head to Reading Terminal Market, one of the city's favorite ways to start the day. (It's also great for lunch, if you happen to be back in the neighborhood.) Whatever sounds like breakfast to you — bagels, apple fritters, or homemade pop-tarts — you'll find it here. Down Home Diner's "scram bowl," a mix of sausage, peppers, onions, cheese, and home fries, will fill you up until dinner.
Head a few blocks west to Philadelphia City Hall, one of the city's most interesting buildings. Constructed in the waning years of the 19th century, it's topped by a 37-foot-tall statue of Pennsylvania founder William Penn. For a time no structure in the city was taller than his hat. That went out the window in 1986, when the skyscrapers of Liberty Place were erected. Take a ride up the clock tower for a wraparound view of downtown. A block away is John F. Kennedy Plaza, better known as Love Park because it's home to Robert Indiana's famous 1970 sculpture. 
Up Benjamin Franklin Parkway is a string of the city's monumental museums. First up is the Barnes Foundation, with one of the most extensive collections of 19th- and 20th-century French paintings in the world. The exhibit of masterworks by Renoir, Cezanne and Matisse can't be beat.
AFTERNOON: Put some thought into Rodin
The Barnes has its own on-site eatery, called The Garden Restaurant at the Barnes Museum. It looks out onto the museum’s lush grounds through wall-to-wall windows.  In warm weather there are a few umbrella-shaded tables on the patio. This is the kind of place for a simple salad and a glass of wine. When we asked the staff at the Barnes for a recommendation of someplace nearby, they steered us to a pub called the Kite and Key. Order a burger and a beer, like all the locals at the adjoining tables.
If you were wondering what French sculptors were working on a little over a century ago, head to the nearby Rodin Museum to take in a cast of his monumental work The Thinker. The statue is impressive, but you'll also want to leave some time to visit the gardens, modeled on those from the Musée Rodin in Paris.
From here, you've got some difficult choices to make. If you have kids in tow, consider heading south to the Franklin Institute, an interactive science museum that will keep them occupied for hours. If you're a history buff, due north is the fortress-like Eastern State Penitentiary. This crumbling ruin, once one of the world's most famous prisons, is an eye-opening look at the early years of our country's criminal justice system.
But our favorite option is heading a little further up Benjamin Franklin Parkway to the Philadelphia Museum of Art. You might know it from the movie Rocky, during which the boxer trains by running up the steps. (The nearby statue of the fictional Rocky Balboa, forever in his victory pose, is perfect for selfies, but there is always a line.) The museum is a massive place, with more than 200 galleries holding more than a quarter of a million works of art from all over the world so give yourself the better part of an afternoon.
EVENING: Dining with the city's top chefs
Just off Benjamin Franklin Parkway is Victory Brewing Company of Philadelphia, one of the city's craft breweries. After an afternoon of museum-hopping, a flight of locally brewed beers is a great way to relax before you head out in search of a memorable meal.
If you want to be wowed by the Philly food scene without making a reservation, head to the bar at Friday, Saturday, Sunday (the 2023 James Beard Outstanding Restaurant winner) right when they open at 5 p.m. There are limited seats for the bar menu which gives you a taste of their award-winning cuisine. 
Further into Center City is the award-winning Fork, a farm-to-table favorite. It's run by Ellen Yin, one of the women who has transformed the dining scene in Philly.  Order the striped bass with kale pistou or the trout with dates and preserved oranges and you won't be disappointed. Another great choice is Vedge, a favorite with Tripadvisor readers. You might have guessed from the name that this cozy spot focuses on vegetables, but what James Beard-nominated chefs Kate Jacoby and Rich Landau do with them is something magical. Sharing is the way to go here, as you'll definitely want to sample what everyone else at your table is having.
CENTER CITY TOUR OPTIONS
The Historically Hilarious Trolley Tour is like most other guided drives around Philly, but this one is BYOB. Sip your favorite beer or wine as you listen to a comedian's humorous take on the city's history. You'll stop along the way for a photo-op on the Rocky steps.To see as much of the city as possible, consider pedal power. The Classic Philly Bike Tour takes you past many of the sights in and around Center City, including the Philadelphia Museum of Art. You'll also ride along the Schuylkill River on Philly's most popular bike trail.If you can't decide what you want for lunch, then the Best of Philadelphia Food Tour should be right up your alley. At Reading Terminal Market and other downtown destinations you'll try everything from pretzels to cheesesteaks to pastrami on rye.
Travelers say: "My first visit to the Philadelphia Museum of Art and I loved it! The staff is very friendly, welcoming, and great with questions. I was amazed at the size of the museum and the amount of artwork that was displayed. You need a full day to walk through all the exhibits. Wear comfortable shoes so you can run up the Rocky stairs. I can't wait to visit again!" —@Kim S
Worthy detours along the way
2024Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul980Churches & CathedralsAcademy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University405Natural History Museums, Science MuseumsPennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts413Art MuseumsLogan Square14ParksFree Library of Philadelphia112LibrariesWashington Monument31Monuments & StatuesBen Franklin National Memorial41Monuments & Statues2024Rocky Statue3,284Monuments & Statues
Know Before You Go
There's not a bad time of year to visit Philadelphia, but spring and fall are probably your best bets because the weather is warm enough for walking around all day and the foliage is at its finest. Fairmount Park's cherry trees are covered in pink and white blossoms in the spring, while the maple trees along Benjamin Franklin Parkway turn various shades of red and orange in the fall. Temperatures rise in summer, as do rates at most of the city's hotels. Winter is chilly, but the holiday light shows, Christmas markets and ice skating rinks make it bearable.
For most of the year, Philadelphia's top attractions tend to be a little more manageable on weekdays. That doesn't apply in summer, when you'll encounter crowds no matter what day of the week you visit. Remember that if you're here to see the museums, many are closed at least one day a week. For example, the Barnes Foundation and the Philadelphia Museum of Art are closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.
Operated by the National Parks Service, the Liberty Bell and other attractions that are part of Independence National Historical Park are open daily 9 to 5. Most of the city's museums have similar hours. Reading Terminal Market opens a little earlier and stays open a little later. Shops usually stay open to about 7 to catch the after-work crowd.
If you're planning a weekend getaway, it makes sense to stay in Center City. Earning a Travelers' Choice award from Tripadvisor readers is the Independence Park Hotel, in a handsome building on the National Register of Historic Places. It's less than a block from the Museum of the American Revolution and just three blocks from Independence Hall, making its location pretty much unbeatable. The rooms are a little on the small side — as is the case in many older buildings — but they are nicely appointed.
Earning high marks in every category from Tripadvisor readers, The Mint House at the Divine Lorraine Hotel is a boutique lodging option with one- and two-bedroom suites with views of the city skyline. What you don't get is cookie-cutter rooms. The 101 rooms have many different configurations and are individually decorated with modern furnishings. If you're traveling with a family, it's nice to have a kitchen at your disposal. 
Closer to City Hall, Reading Terminal Market, and the museums along Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Club Quarters Rittenhouse Square is ideally situated for exploring the city. The public areas on the ground floor are stunning, with lots of sunlight flooding through the arched windows. Rooms are on the small side, but have plenty of amenities.
Public transportation: Philadelphia doesn't have a shortage of public transportation options, including subway and bus lines that fan out across the city. These are more helpful for traveling between neighborhoods, although on a cold or rainy day you might appreciate ducking into a subway station to cut a little time off your walk. More helpful for travelers are the purple PHLASH buses that operate on a loop in and around Center City. For a couple of bucks they hit most of the area's top attractions. These only operate from March to December.
By bike: With more than 400 miles of dedicated bike lanes, Philadelphia is becoming one of the country's best cycling cities. You can rent your own wheels through Indego, the city's bike share program. Docking stations aren't hard to find, as there are more than 140 stations in and around downtown. Use the touchscreen kiosk at any of the stations to pay with a credit card and you'll soon be on your way.
By foot: There aren't many cities that are as easy to explore on foot than Philadelphia. Because of its grid pattern, Center City is incredibly easy to navigate. If you get turned around, remember that north-south streets are numbered, while east-west streets are usually named after trees. Colorful signs point you toward all the local attractions. Wear some comfortable footwear and stroll down the cobblestone streets. 
By taxi: Metered taxis are still easy to find cruising the streets of Center City. Hop in one that's queued up in front of the train station and other transportation hubs, or simply raise your arm when you spot one driving by with its dome light on. The ride-sharing services Uber and Lyft are also available throughout most of the city.
Airport transfers: From Philadelphia International Airport, the cheapest way to get to Center City is one of the regional trains operated by the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority. They take about half an hour, roughly the same amount of time it would take in a taxi. The advantage of a taxi is being dropped off at the door of your hotel. Unlike rides around the city, taxis from the airport have a set fare. You can also call an Uber or Lyft.


