Philly 101: The Essential Guide To Philadelphia
Your Philly planning starts here...
Copied to Clipboard
Every year, visitors to Philadelphia get to know the city’s history, customs, cuisine, dialect and landscape during their visits.
Both first-time travelers and returning natives discover and rediscover a diverse, neighborhood-based metropolis with a downtown that’s easy to navigate on one’s own or via public transit.
Philly regularly receives raves in The New York Times, Bon Appétit, Esquire, Travel + Leisure, USA Today, Condé Nast Traveler and more — yet the city doesn’t stand one bit for pretense.
So, let’s put aside the accolades for just a sec and get back to the basics.
Here’s our guide to navigating Philadelphia, featuring key things any visitor should know.
The Lay of the Land
Grid Layout
Seventeenth-century city planner William Penn envisioned the grid of streets that comprise Philadelphia’s downtown (read: Center City).
Perpendicular streets run north-south (they’re numbered) and east-west (many named for trees: Walnut, Locust, Spruce). There are two notable exceptions to the north-south numbering: What would be 1st Street is named Front Street. And what would be 14th Street is Broad Street.
Two rivers, the Schuylkill and the Delaware (dividing Pennsylvania from New Jersey), form the western and eastern boundaries of Center City; Vine Street and South Street form the north-south boundaries.
Today, Penn continues to give direction to the city. His iconic statue atop City Hall points northeast.
Exceptions to the Grid
The 101-year-old, mile-long Benjamin Franklin Parkway cuts diagonally through Center City’s grid, from near City Hall, past the famous LOVE Park to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
Modeled after Paris’ Champs-Élysées, the parkway is home to the Barnes Foundation, The Franklin Institute, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, the Rodin Museum and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
East Passyunk Avenue runs diagonally through South Philly, passing through a row of restaurants and shops, past cheesesteak rivals Geno Steaks and Pat’s King of Steaks and ending at colorful South Street.
Frankford Avenue begins near Delaware Avenue before heading northeast through Fishtown and Kensington, where Penn’s grid transforms into more of a web.
Greene Country Town

Penn also planned Center City’s five main squares, part of his vision for a “greene countrie town.”

									Logan Square				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

Today, these city-block parks are still among Philly’s most popular greenspaces and are known as:
Historic Essentials
Independence National Historical Park

America’s most historic square mile is a must-see of America’s origins. Visitors can reserve free, timed tickets to tour esteemed Independence Hall, the UNESCO World Heritage Site where the Declaration of Independence was signed, the U.S. Constitution was created, and the Annual Reminders, the country’s earliest organized and recurring LGBTQ+ rights demonstrations, took place.

									The Liberty Bell				
									  — Photo by A. Ricketts for Visit Philadelphia

Nearby, the no-ticket-required Liberty Bell Center displays the beloved symbol of freedom, continuous inspiration for believers in civil rights.
On the same block, the open-air President’s House, where the permanent exhibit Freedom and Slavery in the Making of a New Nation tells of the nine Africans U.S. President George Washington enslaved there.
Valley Forge National Historical Park
In the harsh winter of 1777-1778, Washington’s Continental Army encamped here. Today, the site honors the sacrifice and strength of those who helped secure freedom for the United States.

									Valley Forge National Historical Park				
									  — Photo by R. Kennedy for Visit Philadelphia

Valley Forge National Historical Park offers a variety of programming throughout the year, including ranger programs, guided tours and living history demonstrations.
Art & Architecture
Barnes Foundation

									Barnes Foundation				
									  — Photo by Visit Philadelphia

This world-renowned collection contains Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and early Modern paintings, along with Old Master works, Native American jewelry and African sculpture (2025 Benjamin Franklin Parkway).
Boathouse Row

									Boathouse Row				
									  — Photo by M. Fischetti for Visit Philadelphia

Ten charming, 19th-century crew clubhouses comprise this National Historical Landmark along the Schuylkill River. Still in use, the boathouses serve local colleges and universities. At night, lights frame the buildings, providing one of Philadelphia’s most recognizable — and Instagram-worthy — landmarks (1 Boathouse Row).
Note: Beginning March 20, 2023, the iconic Boathouse Row went dark for an expected eight months while the lighting system receives a major glow-up. Fairmount Park Conservancy is partnering with Philadelphia Parks & Recreation to replace and upgrade the existing light system.
Mural Arts Philadelphia
Founded in 1984 as an anti-graffiti initiative, this world-renowned mural program uses art to ignite change in communities, transforming public spaces and individual lives.

  — Photo by Visit Philadelphia

To date, the program has produced more than 4,000 murals, available to view on one’s own or via a number of tours.
Philadelphia City Hall
The Second Empire building at the intersection of Broad and Market streets has been home to the Philadelphia city government since 1889. The elaborate, 14.5-acre masonry structure, once the tallest building in the U.S., remains the country’s largest municipal building.

									City Hall viewed from Dilworth Park				
									  — Photo by M. Fischetti for Visit Philadelphia

The observation deck below the 37-foot bronze statue of William Penn atop the clock tower offers tours; the building hosts two-hour building tours as well (1400 John F. Kennedy Boulevard).
Philadelphia Museum of Art
The crown jewel of the Benjamin Franklin Parkway offers an astounding art collection spanning more than 2,000 years and includes sculpture, paintings, textiles, arms and armor, photography, prints and drawings.

									Philadelphia Museum of Art, with the Philadelphia skyline in the background				
									  — Photo by Elevated Angles for Visit Philadelphia

The site was also immortalized in the classic Rocky film franchise. To this day, visitors jog up the steps to reenact Stallone’s famous scene (2600 Benjamin Franklin Parkway).
The African American Museum in Philadelphia (AAMP)

									The African American Museum in Philadelphia				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

The very first museum funded by a major city to showcase and preserve the African American history and culture opened in 1976 and remains home to an extensive collection of artifacts and hosts a number of cutting-edge artistic and cultural events (701 Arch Street).
Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History

									Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

Also established in 1976 is this only U.S. museum dedicated exclusively to the American Jewish experience.
More than 30,000 artifacts comprise the world’s largest collection of Jewish Americana; the venue hosts public and educational programs, events and lectures (5th & Market Streets).
The Food
Cheesesteaks

Born in South Philly, this meat-and-cheese (onion optional) sandwich is most frequently purchased at 24/7 operations Pat’s King of Steaks (where it was invented) and nearby Geno’s Steaks (Pat’s King of Steaks, 1237 East Passyunk Avenue; Geno’s, 1219 South 9th Street).

  — Photo by Visit Philadelphia

Other go-to spots include John’s Roast Pork, Pennsport’s neon-lit Tony & Nick’s and North Philly’s famed Max’s Steaks (Tony & Nick’s, 39 East Oregon Avenue; Max’s Steaks, 3653 Germantown Avenue).
Hoagies
Outside of the 215/267/484/445/610 area codes, these sandwiches often go by “subs” or “heroes.” Philly’s hoagie game is serious: The bread has to be just right—slightly crunchy on the outside yet soft enough to allow bites through to deli meat, cheese and toppings.
South Philly spots such as Cosmi’s Deli are classic; places like Primo Hoagies are reliably omnipresent.
Roast Pork
The Philly sandwich many locals consider to be the real hometown favorite consists of a quality long Italian roll, savory sliced pork, provolone cheese and broccoli rabe or garlicky spinach. Some people add long hots (peppers) for even more flavor.

  — Photo by E. Teel for Visit Philadelphia

Two popular places people go for roast pork are the Reading Terminal Market’s Tommy DiNic’s and John’s Roast Pork, on the edge of South Philadelphia’s Pennsport neighborhood (DiNic’s, 12th & Arch Streets; John’s Roast Pork, 14 Snyder Avenue).
Soft Pretzels
Early German settlers introduced this doughy delight. In the morning, locals can dip pretzels into cream cheese; typically, mustard is the condiment of choice.
Soft pretzels are standard fare at food carts, can be found in Reading Terminal Market at Miller’s Twist and are available throughout the region at Philly Pretzel Factory franchises.
Water Ice
Erstwhile referred to as Italian ice, this smoother-than-a-snow cone, better-than-a-shaved ice has flavor mixed in, not poured on top.

									John's Water Ice				
									  — Photo by D. Knoll for Visit Philadelphia

At South Philadelphia’s circa 1945 John’s Water Ice, lemon and cherry are the most-ordered flavors; at multiple Rita’s Italian Ice locations, mango wins the day, and West Philly’s seasonal Siddiq’s Real Fruit Water Ice stand keeps people cool with coconut, kiwi banana, mango berry and more real fruit water ices.
Food Hubs
For these and more Philly flavors, the Reading Terminal Market and South 9th Street Italian Market serve as culinary catchalls.
The former houses more than 80 vendors of regional specialties and global cuisine in a historic one-time train terminal.

									Reading Terminal Market				
									  — Photo by Visit Philadelphia

The latter lines multiple South Philly blocks with merchants selling produce, cheeses, tacos, pasta, meats, spices and more (Reading Terminal, 12th & Arch Streets; South 9th Street Italian Market, S. 9th Street, between Christian & Federal Streets).
Getting Around
By Foot or Wheelchair
Locals like to self-propel. It’s the easiest way to get around.

  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

In 2023, Philly was voted the most walkable city in America by USA Today.
Indego

Cyclists can traverse the city’s hundreds of bike lanes by using this popular bike-share program.
More than 140 docking stations have simple credit card machines that take less than a minute to use. A day pass is $15 for unlimited 30-minute rides; any ride over 30 minutes is an additional 20 cents per minute.
Philly PHLASH Downtown Loop™
Fast, convenient and affordable: That’s the purple PHLASH bus. Riders pay $2 per ride, $5 for a one-day pass or $9 for a two-day pass (good on consecutive days) to reach 20 stops along its attraction-heavy route.

  — Photo by M. Edlow for the Independence Visitor Center Corporation

The PHLASH runs daily in the spring, summer and around the winter holiday season, and on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays in the fall and winter.
SEPTA (Southeastern Public Transit Authority)
The region’s public transit system includes subways, buses, trolleys and suburban rail lines. The Broad Street Line subway runs north and south along Broad Street and connects to the sports stadiums of South Philadelphia, with express service during games.

  — Photo by E. Frizzelle for Visit Philadelphia

The Market-Frankford Line (called “the El” for its above-ground portions) travels east and west beneath Market Street, connecting to northeastern neighborhoods Northern Liberties and Fishtown and to University City/West Philly in the other direction. Numbered bus lines cover nearly every other block of the city. For subways and buses, riders can pay $2.50 in cash (exact change), or purchase a reloadable SEPTA Key Card, which offers several fare options.
Taxis
They’re easy to flag down, especially in Center City. Look for the light on, on the top.
Uber, Lyft, 215-Get-A-Cab
Need a ride? There are apps for that. Download popular rideshare apps at uber.com, lyft.com or 215getacab.com.
The Dialect
Pronunciations
Many Philadelphia natives have a distinctive way of pronouncing local names. Schuylkill, as in the river or the I-76 expressway, is skool-kil. Passyunk, the South Philadelphia avenue and neighborhood, is pash-shunk.

									Schuylkill River Trail and Schuylkill River				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

Philly Accent
Water is wooder. The Eagles are the Iggles. Many words that start with st- tend to get more of a sht- treatment, making street sound like schtreet. The pronoun “our” sounds like are, and “orange” gets the same sound at its start—are-ange. “Bagel” goes by beg-el (but soft pretzels are better; see above). And jeet? That’s how caring Philadelphians ask if a person has eaten.
The Dictionary
gravy /grey-vee/ noun: a South Philadelphia term for red Italian sauce. Villa Di Roma makes gravy like my grandmom’s.
hoagie /hoh-gee/ noun: a hero or sub sandwich. The block party is sure to have hoagies, cheesesteaks and soft pretzels.
jawn /jawn/ noun: a thing, person or place; multi-purpose fill-in-the-blank word. Wave that jawn when the parade goes by.
the Linc /thə lingk/ noun: short for Lincoln Financial Field. “E-A-G-L-E-S: Eagles!” echoes, well, really, everywhere.

									Mummers				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

Mummers /muhm-er/ noun: costumed musicians and irreverent revelers who march up Broad Street on New Year’s Day. You know Uncle Jimmie. He’s a Mummer.
yo /yoh/ interjection: greeting; used to get someone’s attention. Yo! Who’s dat at the top of City Hall?
water ice /wood-er ahys/ noun: Italian ice treat. When it’s August, lemon water ice hits the spot.
Wawa /wah-wah/ noun: convenience store native to Philadelphia region. Yo. Let’s stop at Wawa for a hoagie and Tastykakes before the Birds game.
More Things to Do
So you’ve mastered the Philly basics. Congrats! But guess what? There is so, so (so) much more to Greater Philadelphia than cheesesteaks, Rocky and the Liberty Bell. (Don’t get us wrong — those are awesome, too.)
Philly’s Hidden Gems: Places You (Probably) Didn’t Know About
Philly has scores of hidden gems for those in the know — and you, friend, are about to be one of them.

									Shofuso Japanese Cultural Center				
									  — Photo by J. Fusco for Visit Philadelphia

Down a narrow Center City alleyway, off the beaten path in South Philly or tucked away in the nearby countryside, Greater Philadelphia is home to scores of lesser-known attractions that even the hardiest of locals may not be familiar with.
Hidden Bars & Restaurants in Philadelphia
Here in Philly, if you know, you know where to find a private hoagie-and-pizza omakase service, a subterranean bowling alley below a trendy Center City gastropub and more.
From a cheese lover’s delight at Di Bruno Bros.’ after-hours tasting encounter to drinks with friends at Hop Sing Laundromat or The Franklin Mortgage & Investment Co. (speakeasies both listed among the best bars in America), these not-totally-obvious but-oh-so-awesome hidden hotspots are worth the effort to seek out.
Day Trip Ideas From Philadelphia
The towns in Bucks, Chester, Delaware and Montgomery counties offer adventures for nature lovers, art appreciators and history buffs, as well as some of the best shopping on the East Coast.

									Fonthill Castle				
									  — Photo by K. Crawford

Check out our guide to Greater Philadelphia’s awesome attractions — all located within about a one-hour drive of Center City Philadelphia — by clicking the button below.
Essential Philly Eats — from Appetizers to Desserts
It’s easy to feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of places to go and meals to try in Philly.
That’s why we rounded up the quintessential, gotta-have-it-while-you’re-here dishes that you can only get in Philadelphia, from the roast chicken at Vernick Food & Drink to the shaw muang at Kalaya.
Places You Won’t Believe Are in Greater Philadelphia
A Japanese teahouse in the middle of the world’s largest urban park. A Gothic temple in the heart of downtown. A peaceful wildlife refuge bordering an international airport.

									Morris Arboretum				
									  — Photo by P. Warhol

These are just a few of the numerous amazing places you would never believe existed in Greater Philadelphia … until you see for yourself.

