Philadelphia Visitor Guide
Whenever folks visit me in Philadelphia, I’m always scrambling to get my list of favorite things to recommend and tell them what they should do. Now we finally have the Dan Likes To Eat Philadelphia Visitor Guide! Below you’ll find all the things that I personally think are the best things to check out in Philadelphia. 
If you only have one day in Philadelphia
Here is my idea of a perfect day in Philadelphia for visitors, and because Philly is one of the most walkable cities in the United States, most of this is a great walking tour as well – one of the many reasons you should choose to come visit Philly… read on for more 😊  
Brunch: Start your day off with a great Philly Brunch
You can check out my full list of my favorite Philly restaurants, but a few of my favorite brunch spots include: Parc is our favorite, but we also really love K’Far and The Love. I also love Positano Coast but it’s on the other side of the city so if you’re on foot, the first three are the best options. After Brunch, you should head to…
The Rocky Steps
You’ve got to work off that big brunch and enjoy some of the best sights of Philadelphia. Head to the Philadelphia Museum of Art and run up the iconic Rocky Steps. You can take a photo with the famous statue of Rocky, and head up the stairs to stand in his foot prints at the top. Be sure to enjoy the beautiful views of the city skyline from the steps. After you have taken in all the views…
Walk the Schuklkill River Trail through Fairmount Park
Walk around behind the museum and head down toward the water. There is a great spot to enjoy views of the river, see the historic boat houses along the water (walk north), and walk along the trail. If it’s a Saturday or Sunday morning, you might catch me running along the trail. Once you’ve enjoyed the park… don’t forget to…
Stop at Love Park & City Hall

City Hall is without a doubt the most impressive structure in Philadelphia and is at the main crossroads of the city (Broad and Market). There is not a bad view of it from anywhere you stand but one of my favorites is to the south (on Broad, stand in the middle of the street) or to the east (on Market) near Macy’s.  City Hall is one of the most photogenic spots in Philly and you should definitely grab a picture for social media.  From here, you might be hungry again and ready to rest your feet and sit for a few minutes, you can’t visit Philadelphia without visiting…
Reading Terminal Market
Even if you have limited time in Philly, there is no reason you should miss this. Reading Terminal is one of the best food markets in the world (and I’ve been to food markets all over the world). It is also one of America’s largest and oldest public food markets, founded in 1893 (before women could even vote!).
Head to the Liberty Bell & Independence Hall
You can’t miss one of the most iconic symbols of American freedom while in Philly. It only takes a few minutes to stop and SEE the bell through the window if you’re on a time crunch, and if you have extra time, the museum is free to go inside and is quick to walk through. Be sure to walk around Independence Hall (again, go inside if you have time, they do a nice tour) check out the park behind the building and stand where they first read the Declaration of Independence aloud to the public. 
Now pass by the historical buildings around Independence Hall. Walk past the Second Bank of the United States and make a quick stop at Carpenters’ Hall and the First Bank of the United States (on 3rd Street between Chestnut and Walnut). Then walk north on 3rd Street to Arch Street (just a couple of blocks) for a quick stop at…
The Betsy Ross House
This one is cool to see, pop inside for a few minutes for a little history about the Star Spangled Banner, our flag, and the woman who allegedly created the first one. If you’re short on time, this one is an easy skip, but it’s directly on the way to my next “must” on this list… walk a couple more blocks to…
Elfreth’s Alley
Step back in time and walk down the oldest continuously inhabited street in the United States of America… and there are still people living there. You will feel the magic of history come alive as you wander down this short alley in old city. One of my favorite things is to take a left down “Bladens Court” (about 3/4 down the alley) and you feel like you’re entering a secret garden. Elfreth’s Alley is one of my favorite photo spots as well because of the red accents and the flags hanging up. You really feel like you might just run into Ben Franklin on his way to the library. Since you’ve walked off lunch by this point, if you were me, you’d be on the hunt for your next tasty treat, my favorite place to take friends from out of town after Elfreth’s Alley is…
The Franklin Fountain & Shane Confectionary 
The Franklin Fountain is an authentic ice cream parlor and soda fountain. You will think you’re in a movie when you step up to order your treat in this historical turn of the century building. Be sure to check out the original floor, the ceiling, and all of the fun decoration. Just a couple doors down you should at least stop inside the Shane Confectionary: America’s oldest continuously operating confectionary shop. You will be inspired by the beautiful treats and it’s a great place to buy something to take home to your friends, family, or co-workers.
After all of this, you will likely be an exhausted (edging on grumpy) tourist so I’ll let you choose your own adventure from here. Don’t forget to check out my list of amazing Philly restaurants and food spots while you’re in town too! 
Other fun things to do in Philly
If you plan accordingly, you can fit more into one day, and hopefully you have some time to slow down and relax, enjoy the grittiness and textures that Philadelphia has to offer. Here are some other great things to consider for your time in Philly if you have more than a day: 
Universal Sphere
If it’s a week day, here is a hidden gem. Inside the Comcast Technology Center (Four Seasons Hotel – same building, different entrance) you can visit the Universal Sphere, which is a FREE 15-minute attraction. You can book tickets ahead of time, or go and wait for the next availability (usually you wont need to wait more than 15-30 minutes). It only operates during business hours but you will leave feeling inspired to follow your passions and think about your next big idea. At the same time (in the same building actually), also check out:
Jean George Sky High bar at the Four Seasons
The views from the top floor are unmatched. You get an incredible birds-eye view of Philly. Drinks are expensive so I usually go for one drink and enjoy it while I look out the windows at the tiny people moving around on the ground. The best time to go is between 1pm-4pm where there isn’t a rush for a meal. You don’t have to be a guest at the hotel to enjoy the bar and views.
Cira Green Rooftop Park
Whoever heard of a park on a rooftop? Well that’s exactly what this is. More great views of Philadelphia and the river. Sometimes they have sports games playing on a big screen and sometimes it’s peaceful with very few people there. This is a great place to rest your legs if you’re tired from walking. 
Irving St and S Quince St for your perfect historical Instagram shot
I don’t know if there is anything significant about this street, but it is just magical if you’re looking for a great instagram moment. If you’re here and are hungry, one of my favorite restaurants is around the corner. It’s called Kanella and serves incredible Greek food.
Penn’s Landing
During the warm months, Penn’s Landing is such a fun vibe. Check out the stalls along the river, a great place to hang out for a couple hours or walk through for 30-60 mins and check out the Navy ships docked there. You can rent little boats for a fun time and you can even tour some of the boats or go in the Submarine Museum. You could easily spend a few hours around Penn’s Landing with the different activities and food available, so take your time if you have it.
Go for a Run!
Philadelphia is home to some 56 RUNNING GROUPS (at the time of writing this)! Apparently this city is obsessed with running and I love it! Whether you’re here on a week day, weekend, looking for a short jog, or long run, Philly has you covered. Check out this list of Philadelphia run clubs here, or come on a run with my favorite running group, YAP Philly on Sunday mornings each week!  Honestly, we probably have so many run clubs because we also have so many good places to eat and we need to run off those calories, haha! 😂 
South Philly Favorites
I’m a South Philly boy so I have to include a few favorite things to do in South Philly, and most of them include food. 
Philly Aids Thrift Shop and explore South Street
South Street, almost no matter where you are, is unique and fun to wander. One block you might say “this reminds me of Chicago” and then the next you’ll find yourself saying “no it’s more like San Francisco”… and then you’ll say “wait it’s kind of like parts of Los Angeles”… well you’re not wrong, and you’re wrong… because…. this is PHILLY, and that’s the vibe of Philly. Walk down South Street and check out the Philly Aids Thrift Shop, you’re sure to find some fun trinket to take home, or just enjoy seeing the wild items people got rid of. 
East Passyunk
The diagonal avenue that runs through the east side of South Philly is one of my favorite places in the entire city to take a stroll, pop in little shops, and eat at restaurants. Some of the best food in the city can be found here (Le Virtu, Kouklet, Bing Bing Dim Sum, and more). You could easily do your own little walking food tour on East Passyunk and have an amazing time.
The Italian Market
Another gem of South Philly is the Italian Market… which is also kind of more like a Mexican Market lol. Some of the city’s best Mexican food can be found here but it’s a cultural experience just to walk down the street. I recommend walking the full length from Christian Street down to Wharton Street and you will see the two iconic Philly Cheese Steak joints (Pat’s and Geno’s) and you will NOT eat at them unless you have ALREADY had a great cheese stake from somewhere much better (Angelo’s is my favorite, you can also get a great one at Reading Terminal Market).  Any Philadelphian will hard core judge you for eating at Pat’s and Geno’s… (but they all secretly know which one is their favorite between the two… *cough* Geno’s *cough*).  It’s also a fun spot for a photo with the opposing cheese steak joints. 
Bok Building / Bok Bar
Lastly, if you are loving South Philly and can’t get enough of the eclectic vibes, check out Bok Building for some cool coffee and pastry shops and little stores, and then go up to the rooftop for the southern vantage point of the city skyline. 
Southeast Asian Food Market at FDR Park
Okay now we’ve gone so far “south Philly” that I’m not sure this is even South Philly even more, but it’s right across the street from all of the sports stadiums. On the weekends, there is a giant Southeast Asian food market in FDR park and is a great place to try some food you’ve never had before and enjoy all the delicious flavors. FDR park is generally a great place to walk around and enjoy some nature if the city has gotten too much for you and my favorite place in the city to play tennis, too.
Advertisements

At the end of the day, Philadelphia is an incredible city with endless things to do. I feel like this hardly scratches the surface but hopefully it gives you some ideas for planning your time in this wonderful city. 
Hit me up on instagram if you have questions!
Cheers to the City of Brotherly Love, 
Sincerely,
Dan DuPrawPhiladelphia Food BloggerWorld TravelerExpert Eater-Outer 

				    



